>> You are listening to the
Patience MindTalk audio.
In a moment, the
hypnosis will begin.
But before it does,
I'd like to remind you
that the following
audio contains
powerful hypnotic
suggestions that
aim to cause deep relaxation.
So please be sure that, whenever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you, and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart
from close your eyes,
relax, lie back, and
let go and really enjoy
these peaceful feelings and all
the benefits that come with it.
Make yourself as
comfortable as possible
and concentrate on
the sound of my voice.
And begin by drawing in
long, slow, deep breath
in through your nose.
Hold the breath for a moment.
And now slightly open your
mouth and release all the air
from your body in a
long, low, deep sigh.
And relax, allowing your
lungs to naturally deflate
as your body sinks into
gentle relaxation now.
And you can release any tension.
Relax and let go as I
guide you through a journey
of relaxation, a journey that
you will find very beneficial
for your overall well-being.
You're going to start
this calming experience
by first relaxing your
whole body-mind system.
And it's true to say that the
simple act of relaxing the body
and mind has a positive knock-on
effect because how you think
determines how you feel.
And how you feel influences
the world around you.
And how you choose
to think today
affects your decisions
from here on in.
So to make my
assurances your reality,
let's begin by
focusing your attention
at the very top of your head.
Tension often starts at
the scalp and the neck.
So mentally and physically
allow all the muscles
around the top of your
head to relax now,
letting all the tension
simply dissolve.
As you start to tune into
your body-mind system,
just let any tension you may
be holding to release now.
Allow your brain to relax,
the left and the right lobes
of the brain just releasing,
such a simple thought, yet
so profound and so significant,
just letting go completely,
drifting further
and further down,
nobody wanting anything,
nobody needing anything.
This is your time to relax.
Taking the relaxation
into the face
now, allowing all of your
facial muscles to feel loose.
Feel your brow relaxing,
your forehead smoothing out,
the back of your eyes relaxing,
tiny muscles around your eyes
and eyelids, down
into your cheeks
and into your jaw muscles,
just releasing and letting go,
allowing your tongue to
fall away from the roof
of your mouth.
And should you find you need
to swallow, just do that
now and drift down and
down, deeper and deeper
into blissful relaxation.
The more you physically
relax, the more
you can mentally relax.
And when you can
mentally relax, you
can think much more clearly.
And when you think more clearly,
your life becomes clearer.
You make better decisions.
And you're much more in
control of your days.
So noticing, now,
how your neck feels,
relaxing all the little muscles,
letting go of the strain,
letting go of the tension.
Allow that tension that you
may be holding in your shoulder
to go now.
Feel those shoulders,
both of them,
sinking into the
frame of your body.
Feel your neck lengthen
as you do this.
Feel or imagine all your
cares and worries just
rolling off your
shoulders now as you
take the relaxation down, now,
into the tops of your arms,
letting any tension you may
be holding just drain away.
And as your awareness floats
down through your upper arms,
into your elbows, all the
muscles in your forearms
relax, right down to your wrists
and into your hands and way
down into the very tips of
your fingers and thumbs.
Your arms are feeling so heavy,
your body so comfortable.
Nothing whatsoever
to do but just
relax and enjoy this feeling
of total release now.
As you let go of all the
tension in those muscles,
you may experience them becoming
calmer and gently releasing.
And just tune into the
feeling of simply letting go.
As you become aware
of your breathing,
notice that you are now
breathing steadily and slowly,
rhythmically.
And with each exhale,
you feel yourself just
relaxing even more
deeply, allowing
any tension in the chest area,
now, to simply drain away,
letting go completely
and totally.
Bring awareness into
your stomach now.
And let all your
tummy muscles relax.
And as you do, I
want you to imagine
a ball of sunlight passing
down from the top of your head
down through your face, your
throat, and into your stomach.
Visualize this healing
energy passing down
through your throat and
chest and into your stomach.
So see and feel the sunlight
swirling and rotating.
And as the light glows, it
warms and soothes and heals.
And you release and relax and
drift down and further down.
And in your imagination, you
send the sunlight out, now,
to every nerve cell,
bone, muscle, fiber,
and system of the body.
See it flowing through
the bloodstream.
And leave the light there.
It knows what to do.
As you take the relaxation
round into your back muscles
and from your back muscles,
it relaxes those muscles
either side of the spine,
releasing, relaxing,
and just letting go now,
deeper and deeper now.
As you relax your
waist and the muscles
of your lower stomach and
down into the pelvic area, all
the way down through
the large thigh muscles,
down through your knees,
your shins, and your calves,
just allow all those areas of
the body to relax and let go.
You're so relaxed, so
heavy, so comfortable.
And now tune into that
comfortable feeling
as you think on down to your
ankles and to your feet,
right down to the very
tips of your toes,
all the muscles of your body,
now, so beautifully relaxed.
And you feel very heavy
and very comfortable.
And you're feeling centered and
relaxed and fully in control.
If there are any
areas of your body
that still feel
tight or tense, you
find that you can relax them
simply by giving yourself
permission to do so.
And you can now go even
deeper as I count down
from eight to zero.
And with every number, you
feel yourself drifting further
into blissful relaxation.
So, 8, 7, 6, 5--
deeper now-- 4, 3, 2, 1, and 0.
Deeply relaxed, letting go of
all the cares and worries, all
the tension and pressure
and stresses and strains.
Let them all ease from your
body and ease from your mind.
And allow yourself to drift down
into a deeper, more blissful
state of creative relaxation.
Now, in your
imagination, I'd like
you to imagine that
you're standing
on the top of a hill
on a beautiful island.
And it's a lovely,
warm summer's day.
There's a clear, blue
sky, not a cloud in sight.
And the temperature is
just how you like it.
You can feel the gentle
warmth of the sun on your head
and shoulders, and you can
hear the sounds of nature
all around you, making you
feel even more relaxed.
The long grass in the
meadow below sway slightly.
And you can see a
winding path that
disappears into a
small apple orchard
just at the bottom of hill.
And just beyond the
orchard, you can
see the sea, the
sunlight darting off
the tops of the waves
and the whole ocean
shimmering and sparkling.
You begin to move easily
down the path now,
noticing the grass
springing under your feet,
pushing you encouragingly
towards your destination.
And you catch the faint smell
of sea air in the breeze
as you get closer to the
ocean now, as you stroll down,
down the winding path.
And you move
smoothly and easily.
And you feel relaxed and
centered and fully in control.
And you're becoming aware, now,
of the growing calm within you.
You stop to look at the
beautiful flowers growing
each side of the path, their
colors so vivid and bright.
And you stand there for a
moment, taking in the view.
A feeling of happiness flows
through you, continuing down.
You're aware, now,
of a deep sense
of calmness and
tranquility right
from the top of your head
to the tips of your toes,
renewing your energy,
feeling wonderful.
As you walk, you find
yourself almost floating,
as though in a dream world,
down towards the orchard.
You move with such ease,
with no effort whatsoever.
And in no time,
you find yourself
drifting through the fruit trees
with lush, cool, green foliage
forming a canopy overhead.
And you see the
sunlight glittering
through the branches.
And as you stand there, you
feel a glittering sunlight
on your face and neck.
And you feel and
experience it vibrating
throughout your entire
body-mind system.
And as the sunlight moves, it
glows and warms and soothes
and heals your body and mind.
And you release and relax
and move down and down,
taking in another deep breath,
relaxing even more now.
You can hear the
sound of the ocean
as you move nearer and nearer.
And with every
step you take, you
feel more relaxed
and more calm as you
follow that winding path
that leads you downwards.
You turn a corner,
and to your delight,
you find yourself on a
beautiful deserted beach,
the beach sweeping away into
a small bay in front of you.
And the ocean is a striking
turquoise blue, pure and clear.
And you can feel the warm
sand underneath your shoes.
And you take your
shoes off, and you
start walking lazily across
the beach to the water's edge.
You feel the sand
beneath your feet,
and you feel the
sand change from cool
to moist beneath your feet as
you wander along the shoreline.
As you turn around,
you start to walk up
the beach towards
a grassy mound.
And as you walk up slowly, you
take in the smell of the ocean
and you hear the sound
of the water hissing
over the warm sand.
You reach the mound
now, and you sit down,
making yourself comfortable.
And as you gaze out across
the breathtaking scene,
you watch the waves roll
in and roll out again,
rhythmically in and out again.
You play with the sand
through your fingers,
noticing just how good you
feel, so relaxed now, so
relaxed that you've opened
up your subconscious mind
and you're ready to start
making those changes you've
been wanting to make
once and for all.
And as you let go now,
you can allow your mind
to gently drift and wander,
because in hypnosis, you
can really begin to enjoy the
wonderful feelings of knowing
that calm and relaxation
have come, now,
so easily and naturally to you.
You know that you
have been impatient,
and you want to make
those changes now.
You're tired of feeling the
urgency, the frustration,
and the tension that
comes from impatience,
and you're ready
to make the change.
You may have found that,
at times of impatience,
you find your stomach
tensing up as if in knots.
So we're going to
focus here and teach
you to allow those
muscles to relax
and for this relaxation to
spread from those muscles
up into your brain.
So imagine, now, a glowing
light in your stomach area,
warming and relaxing all the
muscles in that area, all
the muscles becoming
heavier, eyes staying
relaxed as if you're
sinking into your chair.
And you can learn to relax
those muscles more and more
every time you exhale.
When you feel yourself tensing
and becoming impatient,
you remember to
take a big breath in
and to release that tension.
Imagine yourself
now in a situation
where you would have previously
become impatient or nervous,
frustrated.
You quickly focus
on your stomach,
taking in a deep breath.
And release the tension.
Focus on your mind
and reconsider
the importance, the urgency
that you are creating.
You remember to
stay calm as that's
when you make better
decisions, when you're more
productive, more efficient.
So picture yourself
now in that situation.
And instead of the
impatient person
you may have previously
been, instead
you choose to let
go of the tension,
the angst in the muscles.
You take in that deep breath.
And you exhale,
slowly and powerfully,
muscles releasing
with every breath
you take, aware that,
if your body is calm,
your mind will slow and
that sense of urgency
will slow, too.
You're breaking the habit,
now, of immediate urgency,
of wanting to get
something done immediately.
You feel much more
rational and calm
if something needs
to be done quickly.
You know that you can move fast
and work quickly, get something
done quickly, but
you don't allow
it to affect your state of
mind, to affect those muscles
in your stomach, and to
lead to that panicked sense
of impatience and urgency.
You practice taking in a long,
deep breath and letting it go.
You feel that deeper sense
of calm within your stomach,
moving all the way up,
influencing your mind.
So you're connected to
your natural wisdom.
And in this state
of deeper calmness,
you can make much
better decisions.
And it begins to dawn on
you that you don't need
to be impatient or frustrated.
You can do all you need to do
in a new and different way that
feels good.
You put yourself first.
You no longer want to feel
those feelings of angst
when you're rushing.
And you double-check
with yourself
if you really need to be
moving quite so quickly.
You start to realize
that there really
isn't that much need to
be quite so impatient,
to get things done
quite so quickly,
and that feeling of calm
begins in your stomach.
By relaxing and
letting go, you are
allowing your body to
connect to your mind,
letting go of tension,
putting yourself first.
You know that, with the
tension and stress and anxiety
you're creating in those
moments of impatience,
that will be affecting your
judgment, your decision making,
but also your mental health
and your physical health.
Those stress hormones
are damaging,
and you no longer want
to be a part of it.
You know that your
priorities are different now.
And you reassess
what really does
have to be done quite so
quickly, quite so regularly.
You know that there are
times when other people don't
react as quickly as you.
And each person is
different and special.
And you know that,
as long as they're
moving as quickly as they can,
as productively as they can,
then that's the
best they can do.
Everyone works at the pace
that's right for them,
and you now appreciate this.
And you can be
surprised to discover
how pleasant it is to sometimes
wait until the time is right.
You double-check
with yourself if life
will be that much different
if you move a little bit more
slowly and if others take
a little bit more time.
You're becoming more
efficient and productive,
allowing yourself a little
bit more time and less stress
hormones.
With a calmer mind
and a calmer body,
you're much more productive.
And you can now allow yourself
to let go of the impatience
and to embrace a calm mind.
You can allow yourself
to change the way
you've got used to being
tense, to getting frustrated.
And instead, you
can use that energy
to be more productive
and more efficient,
to conserve your
energy, and to finish
the task you want to
accomplish, but in a way
that feels so much
more enjoyable.
And it all begins with you
making that choice to change,
taking in that deep breath
and reassessing that priority.
Do you really have to get
it done straight away?
That long, deep, powerful
breath in and out,
fueling this new patient
and calm version of you.
Simply by relaxing the
muscles in your stomach,
you're allowing the
tension to leave your body,
feeling and breathing
the way you want to.
Feel the sense of patience
flowing through your body.
Imagine yourself, now, as a much
more patient person, much more
calm.
Notice how you speak
now that you're calm.
How do you look?
Your shoulders are down,
and you have no frown lines.
You look calm and peaceful
as you manage your tasks
as calmly as possible.
You allow your body to slow
down to a comfortable rhythm.
And you allow your body to
become familiar with the slower
pace, changing thinking patterns
and changing behaviors now.
And even though you
may tense up at times,
you now always have the ability
to reconnect to the new patient
way of breathing,
reacting, and of feeling,
physically and emotionally.
You allow this feeling to become
part of you, to stay with you.
And the more you listen
to this MindTalk audio,
you know that you're
retraining your mind and body
so that you no longer
instinctively tense
up and become impatient.
Instead, you're
teaching your body
to take in those deep breaths,
starting at the stomach
and working up to your mind,
where you slow everything down,
still very much aware
and alert and even more
productive than before,
but without the tension
and impatience that
you used to feel.
And you're excited to
start making those changes,
physically and emotionally.
These hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind
and will get more
and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count up from one to five
to awaken you.
And at the count of five, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling
fantastic, bringing back
with you all the
wonderful new feelings.
Coming back now.
So 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Eyes open when you're ready.